What's clear is you know the pain of
constantly feeling like you're behind on
time. Whether that's I didn't get enough
done today. I need to do more. Or it
means you're not as far ahead as you
thought you were going to be. Don't own
the house. Don't have the job you want.
Aren't married. Whatever it is. And so
you're working for time instead of
having time work for you. And that's
miserable. But the truth is having time
work for you is is not an a hard thing.
It's actually quite simple. But it does
require you to change your perception
and perspective of time. The crazy thing
about time is if you look at the history
of time, it's weird. So, first of all,
early early humans didn't really even
know what age they were. They didn't
even know how many days had gone by.
Time was something that you tracked by,
you know, when the birds sang or when
the moon came up or when the sun was on
the horizon at a particular place.
That's how you track time. And then
eventually we created trains and the
trains needed to be on time so that we
had to have a clock and and before there
was a clock that had a set time. There
was different times for different towns.
They'd have sun dials or they'd have
clocks based on sun dials. And so the
time in the town next to you might have
been 5 minutes different than your time.
And then we got a phone where everybody
has the exact same minute-by-minute
time. and and now we're at a at a
meeting and we're like we're one minute
late and everybody knows you're exactly
one minute late because everybody has
the exact same clock on their phone.
That's how much more precise time has
gotten.
And as that time has gotten more and
more precise, we've become more and more
anxious with that time.
But the whole thing is still just an
illusion. It's still just a story that
we all believe. And of course we have to
live that way because to some degree,
you know, our bosses believe it or our
investors believe it or our wife
believes it and so we're going to
believe that time as well. But to just
first see through the nature of time, to
see that time is something that is a lot
more arbitrary than we think it to be
helps relax the system a little bit.
Helps you give a little more space
between time and yourself.
And so once you can do that, once you
can get a little space, you can see the
the illusionary nature of time, then you
can go into three ways to really think
about time differently and how to use
it. And the first one is to think about
time the way a farmer thinks about time.
This is a way in which you're using time
rather than time using you. What are the
seeds that I can plant for the future
that I maybe I have to attend to a
little bit, but I don't have to attend
to deeply. So if you're a farmer, you're
saying this is the time to plant the
seed.
And then you know because you plant the
seed at this time, it's going to bear
fruit at this time. You know that this
is the seed, this is the season, and
this is the soil to plant the seed in
that's going to allow you to bear fruit.
And maybe you have to do a little
watering, but generally the work is done
for the future. So a great example of
this is doing selfwork. If I do the
selfwork today, if I say learn
uh how to communicate better
and I learn how to communicate better
today, that is a seed I plant for the
rest of my life. For the rest of my
life, I will be able to communicate
better. And so part of planting the seed
in the future is to say, what's the
slightly uncomfortable thing that I can
do? And that's going to give you a lot
of space to figure out, oh, here are the
investments I can make for my future.
So, the second way is to look at your
to-do list completely different.
Typically, what we're doing is we're
saying, "Here's a to-do list. I need to
get it all done." And there's a dopamine
high. There's a neurochemical high that
comes with that. Oh, I press enter on
Slack. I press enter on my email. I feel
like I've done something. Boom. Get the
little dopamine hit. Boom. Get the
little dopamine hit. And I feel like
I've done something. But we've all had
that experience of like, what did I
accomplish? Did I actually move the ball
forward in any meaningful way? Or did I
just respond to people asking me
questions? And so, a great way to think
about this is to say, okay, here's my
to-do list for the day or for the week
or for the month. What is the one, two,
or three things that I can do that will
make everything else on this list easier
or irrelevant, completely irrelevant?
So, let me give you a really simple
example of this. Today we're shooting
this video and my producer is watching
YouTube videos to do some research
and I listen and I hear, "Oh, wait. I
hear an ad. What are you doing?" Like,
what? What makes you listen to an ad? If
you're researching 20 videos, you're
going to be listening to 20 ads. Those
20 ads are going to be a minute a piece.
That's 20 minutes that you're wasting
just on this video session. What's the
one thing you can do to make everything
easier? Well, the one thing to do is to
pay to not take ads on your videos.
And then how much does that cost? Well,
that costs a lot less than your hourly,
you know, for a month. So, let's do
that. And the final just simple
technique to make time work for you is
to actually get the 30,000 foot view
every once in a while of what you're
doing. We will spend five, six, seven
months in a row answering the emails at
2:00 in the afternoon without thinking,
what are we doing? Is this getting us to
the place that we really want to be? So,
think about it like you're using a map.
There's several paths that you can go
on. And every once in a while, you got
to look at your phone or your map and
go, "Oh, am I in the place that I'm
supposed to be? Yes or no? Is this
getting me to where I want to go?" And
then once you've done that, then you can
go back to looking at the trail in front
of you. But every once in a while, you
got to stop, pull up. Is this getting me
to where I want to go? So, a great
example of this is the way that we shoot
our videos. And it's really cool because
you can actually look back at our videos
and see the change that's happened
because of this. So some of our time
we're shooting videos and it feels good
and we're like boom, checking off the
box, we got another video done, we got
another video done. But some of the time
we're pulling back and we're saying,
"Hey, is this how we want to shoot a
video? Is this us? Is this something
that we enjoy?"
And so maybe we started the way that
everybody else shoots videos and then
slowly we try another format and then we
try another format and we're constantly
iterating to say, "Oh, is this the way
that we want to be in the world? Does
this feel like it's getting us to where
we want to go?" We have to actually pull
back and look at all that stuff instead
of just being in that dopamine high of
got it done, got it done, got it done,
got it done.
But in all things, it doesn't matter
what I say. What matters is if it's true
for you. And so here's an experiment
that you can run to see what happens
when you have time work for you instead
of you work for time. So every day you
probably spend time on your calendar or
your to-do list. So, you're going to do
that same thing, but instead of doing it
the way you normally do it, what you're
going to do is say, "Hey, I'm gonna find
one seed I can plant for the future, or
I'm going to find one thing that makes
everything that I'm going to do easier
or irrelevant,
or I'm going to stop, take a look, do
the 30,000 foot view, and say, "Hey, am
I going where I really want to go? And
if not, what course correction should I
make?" So, you're just going to do one
of those three things every day for two
weeks. And you're going to notice, oh,
at the end of those two weeks, what does
that feel like? Does it feel like I'm
still running around like a chicken with
my head cut off, always stressed out,
feeling like I haven't gotten there, or
does it feel a lot more like, oh, I am
using time to accomplish stuff rather
than having time use me?